Add SonarQube integration for static code analysis (#20)
sundarasan-tw/smartFacility: CONTRIBUTING.md

./scripts/dev-run-bff.sh test-report
```

### Running Sonar Scan

### One Time Setup

#### 1. Start SonarQube Server
Run the following command to start the SonarQube server and its PostgreSQL dependency as Docker containers:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose-sonarqube.yml up -d
```

This will start the SonarQube server at [http://localhost:9001](http://localhost:9001).

#### 2. Access SonarQube
Open your browser and navigate to:

[http://localhost:9001](http://localhost:9001)

Use the default credentials to log in:
- **Username**: `admin`
- **Password**: `admin`

After logging in, SonarQube will prompt you to create a new password. Set your new password.

#### 3. Create a Project and Obtain Token
1. Once logged in, create a new project of type local with project key as `web-bff`.
2. Generate a **project token** for authentication. Be sure to copy and save it securely — it won’t be shown again.

#### 4. Update Sonar Scanner Configuration

> In the `sonar-scanner.properties` file located at `web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties`, replace the existing token with your new token under the key `sonar.token`.

Reviewer: Done. Linkfied the file names.

> _If you don't have `web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties` then please refer to [project setup section](https://github.com/sundarasan-tw/smartFacility?tab=readme-ov-file#project-setup) to know how to create configuration files._

Reviewer: Done. Made the link relative.

> 

Reviewer: Added horizontal line to separate out one time setup section.

./scripts/dev-run-bff.sh test-report
```

### Running sonar scan

#### 1. Start SonarQube Server
Run the following command to start the SonarQube server and its PostgreSQL dependency as Docker containers:

```sh

> docker-compose -f docker-compose-sonarcube.yml up -d

Reviewer: Fixed the typo.

```

This will start the SonarQube server at `http://localhost:9001`.

#### 2. Access SonarQube
Open your browser and navigate to:

```
http://localhost:9001
```

Use the default credentials to log in:
- **Username**: `admin`
- **Password**: `admin`

#### 3. Create a Project and Obtain Token

> 1. Once logged in, create a new project named `web-bff`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Once logged in, create a new local project with project key - `web-bff`.
```

Reviewer: Addressed.

2. Generate a **project token** for authentication.

#### 4. Update Sonar Scanner Configuration
Replace the token in the Sonar Scanner configuration file:

```sh
web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties
```

#### 5. Run Sonar Scanner
Execute the following script to analyze the project:

```sh
./scripts/sonar-scan.sh
```

This will successfully scan the project and upload the results to SonarQube.

## Troubleshooting SonarQube Installation

If your SonarQube server exits immediately due to a lack of virtual memory space, try the following steps:

1. Open a terminal and run:
   ```sh
   rdctl shell
   ```
2. Check the current virtual memory setting:
   ```sh
   sysctl vm.max_map_count
   ```
   - If the value is set to `65536`, update it.
3. Edit the `~/.zshrc` file:
   ```sh
   vi ~/.zshrc

>    ```

Reviewer: This step did not work for me @ranjithkumar-tw.

Sequence of command that worked for me,

```bash
rdctl shell
sudo vi /etc/sysctl.conf
# Append "vm.max_map_count = 262144" to the file and save
# Restart sysctl by using below command
sudo sysctl -p
```

Reviewer: Updated troubleshoot steps with new proposed steps.

./scripts/dev-run-bff.sh test-report
```

### Running sonar scan

#### 1. Start SonarQube Server
Run the following command to start the SonarQube server and its PostgreSQL dependency as Docker containers:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose-sonarqube.yml up -d
```

This will start the SonarQube server at `http://localhost:9001`.

#### 2. Access SonarQube

> Open your browser and navigate to:

Reviewer: Addressed. Added link to http://localhost:9001

```
http://localhost:9001
```

Use the default credentials to log in:
- **Username**: `admin`
- **Password**: `admin`

> #### 3. Create a Project and Obtain Token

Reviewer 2: Please call out where certain activities are one-time activities. (Since the data/configration of sonar is going to be captured onto the host system by the volume mount, some of these steps are not needed on an ongoing basis. Due to this, you might want to capture those in a separate section of the document.)

Reviewer: Sure. Moved these steps under one time setup heading.

1. Once logged in, create a new project of type local with project key as `web-bff`.
2. Generate a **project token** for authentication.

#### 4. Update Sonar Scanner Configuration

> Replace the token in the Sonar Scanner configuration file:

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that this file should not be committed after making this change? Where is that calle out?

Reviewer: Removed `web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties` file and added `web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties.example` file.
Also updated `README.md` with steps to
- Create config files by cloning `*.example` files.
- Update team whenever there is change in `*.example` file. So that team can apply the changes to their cloned config file.

```
web-bff/sonar-scanner.properties
```

#### 5. Run Sonar Scanner
Execute the following script to analyze the project:

```
./scripts/sonar-scan.sh
```

This will successfully scan the project and upload the results to SonarQube.

> ## Troubleshooting SonarQube Installation

Reviewer 2: Is this really necessary for all committers?

Reviewer: Please address below aspects as well,
- See if troubleshooting can be avoided.
- Have simple script instead of multiple steps.

Reviewer: > Is this really necessary for all committers?

Not necessarily. If user have allocated necessary memory for the container engine/vm then user will not face this issue.

But on a fresh install of Docker engine users are more likely to face this.

Also wrote a shell script to automate the trouble shooting steps.
